Question 1 [10 points]
Find the names of all customers who have rented foreign and horror films. (Check that there are some)

 

Question 2 [10 points]
Find the first name and last name of all customers that live in the United Kingdom.

 

Question 3 [10 points]
Find all the films that are not in the inventory.

 

Question 4 [10 points]
Find the title of all films with replacement cost larger than 15.99.

 

Relational Algebra - Part B
The following questions related to relational algebra require that you prove certain properties about various operations. 

 

Marking Criteria - Part B
Questions in this section  will be marked based on the following criteria: 

Clear logical description of your reasoning for why something is (or is not) the case will account for 3 of the 5 points allocated to each question.
1 of the 5 points is allocated to clear and neat illustrations that support your argument. 
1 of the 5 points is allocated to a clear and relevant example that supports your argument.
 

Question 5 [5 points]
Show that the intersection of A and B is equivalent to the natural join of A and B. Show that anything that can be achieved by use of intersection can be achieved by use of a natural join - You are required to show that the intersection of A and B results in the same set as the natural join of A and B. Use an illustration and an example to support your argument. 

 

Question 6 [5 points]
Does natural join increase expressive power of relational algebra? Why? Use an example, with the help of an illustration, to support your argument. 

 

Question 7 [5 points]
 Does intersection increase expressive power of relational algebra. Why? Use an example, with the help of an illustration, to support your argument. 

 

Question 8 [5 points]
Does the rename operator increase expressive power? Why? Use an example, with the help of an illustration, to show how the rename operator is used in self joins. 

 

Marking Criteria - Functional Dependencies and BCNF
Questions in these sections  will be marked based on the following criteria: 

Clear logical description of your reasoning for why something is (or is not) the case will account for 4 of the 10 points allocated to each question.
This includes the clear listing out of all steps involved.
Please note that when asked which of several possibilities is correct, it is NOT sufficient to show why something is correct. You must also show why the rest are incorrect. 
Clearly describing the method you are following is allocated 2 of the 10 points. 
For example, if you use the algorithm to find the closure, you must explicitly state this along with details of each of the steps. 
The correctness of your solutions is allocated 4 of the 10 points. 
If your solutions is partially correct, partial points will be awarded at the discretion of the grader. 
 

Functional Dependencies
The following questions pertain to Functional Dependencies. 

 

Question 9 [15 points]
The relation R( A, B, C, D, E ) has the functional dependencies B,C → D and D,E → A.

Assume that there are a maximum of: 

2 values for B
3 values for C
5 values for E
What is the maximum number of possible values for A? Why?

 

Question 10 [5 points]
Consider the relation StudentModuleOptions(StudentID, ModuleID, ModuleMark, Term). What real-world constraint is captured by each of: 

StudentID, ModuleID → ModuleMark
ModuleID → Term
 

Question 11 [10 points]
Consider relation R(A,B,C,D,E) with functional dependencies:

AB → C
AE → D
D  → B
Which of the following functional dependencies follow from the above? Why?

DB → A
AB → D
ABE → C
ABC → DE
 

Question 12 [10 points]
Consider relation R(A,B,C,D,E) with functional dependencies:

E    → D
DA → B
D    → B
BA → E
 

Which of the following is a key? Why?

CE
BE
DEA
BCA
 

Question 13 [10 points]
Suppose relation R(A,B,C,D) currently has only the tuple (1,2,3,4), and it must always satisfy the functional dependencies A → B and B → D. Which of the following tuples may be inserted into R legally? Why?

(1, 3, 4, 5)
(6, 2, 8, 4)
(9, 8, 3, 7)
 

Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF)
The following questions pertain to BCNF. 

 

Question 14 [10 points]
Consider relation R(A,B,C,D) with functional dependencies:

B → C
D→ A
BA → D
CD → B
Decompose R into Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF). Clearly show all intermediary steps. 

 

Question 15 [10 points]
Suppose R(A,B,C,D,E) be a relation in BCNF and ABD is a key for R. Which of the following functional dependencies MUST also hold for R given only this information? Why?

ABC → D
ABCE → D
A → C
ABCD → E
 

Question 16 [10 points]
Decompose the relation R(A,B,C,D,E) with functional dependencies E → C and DA → B into BCNF. Show all your steps clearly. 